#summary structure of a directory in the client root.

= {{{.prebake}}} directory structure =

{{{
<client-root>/
    .prebake/
        port
        cmdline
        token
        archive/
          ...
        logs/
          ...
        00000000.jdb
        je.lck
}}}

The PreBakery service creates a directory in the ClientRoot on startup and, except for {{{cmdline}}}, deletes it on shutdown.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/port}}} ===

Contains a port number on the local machine.  The [Bake bake] command connects to this port to kick off builds using the PreBakeCommand grammar.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/cmdline}}} ===

Contains the {{{argv}}} passed to the prior PreBakery so the {{{bake}}} command can start a PreBakery if none is running.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/token}}} ===

Contains a random string which the {{{bake}}} command sends with PreBakeCommand to demonstrate that it has at least a minimal level of access to the ClientRoot.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/archive}}} ===

Contains files that were deleted because they matched the outputs glob of a
[Product product] but were not produced by the product.
This happens, for example, when a product builds `*.o` files from
`*.cc` files, and the developer deletes a `*.cc` file causing the next
build to produce one less `*.o` file.

If a developer accidentally switches outputs and inputs in a build
rule in strange ways, they could lose data.  If that happens to you, look
under the `archive` directory.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/logs}}} ===

Contains a `.log` file for each [ToolFile tool] and [Product product] that has been built containing pertinent log info.

=== {{{<client-root>/.prebake/je.*}} and {{{<client-root>/.prebake/*.jdb}}} ===

Files for a [http://www.oracle.com/database/berkeley-db/index.html Berkeley DB] with tables mapping file paths under [ClientRoot <client-root>] to
MD5 hashes of those files, and non file artifacts to the files they
depend on.